intro-to-db-and-hosting/deck/deck.mdx, before:

import { Steps, Split, Footer, Image, Notes } from 'mdx-deck';
import { condensed } from '@mdx-deck/themes'

export const theme = condensed;

<Footer>

TUHSD://hackath.on/2022/intro-to-db-and-hosting

</Footer>

# Intro to Databases and Hosting 

<Notes>

3m

Give the students a heads up on the format,
and what we'll be covering.

- ~40m for the DB half of the talk
- A short break
- ~40m for the Hosting half of the talk.

</Notes>

---

# Who am I?

<Steps>

- Self Taught Coder
- Senior Software Engineer at Nikola
- Avid Reader and Gamer

</Steps>


<Notes>

2m

</Notes>

---

# What is a database?

<Notes>

2m

- An organized collection of structured information, or data.
- Most common types of databases organize data into tables with
  rows of data, similar to a spreadsheet.
- Improvements over spreadsheets to allow for network access,
  larger volumes of data, and multiple user access scenarios.

</Notes>

---

# Common Types of Databases

### Relational

<Steps>

- MySQL
- Postgres
- MariaDB

</Steps>

### Document Store / NoSQL

<Steps>

- Mongo
- DynamoDB
- CouchDB

</Steps>


<Notes>

5/6m

BE SURE TO COVER THE DIFFERENCES,
YOU REMOVED THE DEDICATED SLIDE FOR THAT.

- Relational - Tables with fixed columns. 
- Document Store - Stores JSON documents, key/value pairs.

Document stores are often easy to get started with, are flexible,
and can be quite fast for queries and filtering.

SQL / Relational DBs shine with well defined data structures,
consistent data, and multi table queries (relationships).

</Notes>

---

# Other Types of Databases

<Notes>

2m

Just quickly cover that there are many other types, Time-Series, Financial, Graph, In Memory.

Links for further research in Readme.

</Notes>

---

# SQLite and Replit

[REPL.it](https://replit.com/@retrocede/TUHSD-Hackathon-2022-Intro-to-DB)

<Notes>

For these examples we will be using REPL.it and SQLite.

- Since replit is a tool you already have had some exposure to, and they are a sponsor for the hackathon.
- and b/c SQL/Relational databases are going to be generally the most common type you run into.

Link to a replit, share screen.

Aim for ~20m here. Things I would like to at least briefly touch on:

- What is a Table?
- What is a Schema?
- What is an Entry / Row ?
- Primary and Foreign Keys
- One to One and One to Many relationships
- Queries
- Joining
- Migrations
- Seeding

</Notes>

---

# Database Q&A

- ~10m for Questions and a quick break.

<Notes>

Additional Learning topics to add to readme

- ACID
- first, second, and third normal forms
- query optimization
- stored procedures
- indexing

</Notes>

---

# Intro to Hosting

<Notes>

Aim for 2m here

</Notes>

---

# Types of Hosting

- CDN / Static / JAMSTACK
- PAAS (Heroku, etc)
- Bare Metal VM
- Docker / Kubernetes

<Notes>

Can spend 5m here going over different types.

</Notes>

---

# Heroku & Replit

<Notes>

3m to cover that these are what we're going with and why.

</Notes>

---

Hosting a flask project on Heroku

<Notes>

~10m to show how you can quickly spin this up.

</Notes>

---

Hosting a flask project on Repl.it

<Notes>

~10m to show how you can quickly spin this up.

</Notes>

---

Learning opportunities:

- Automation
- CI/CD
- Security

<Notes>

can spend up to 5m on these next topics they may want to pursue.

</Notes>

---

# Q&A

<Notes>

up to 10m for Q&A

</Notes>

Commit message:

added bare bones flask app for demo heroku deploy

intro-to-db-and-hosting/deck/deck.mdx, after:

import { Steps, Split, Footer, Image, Notes } from 'mdx-deck';
import { condensed } from '@mdx-deck/themes'

export const theme = condensed;

<Footer>

TUHSD://hackath.on/2022/intro-to-db-and-hosting

</Footer>

# Intro to Databases and Hosting 

<Notes>

3m

Give the students a heads up on the format,
and what we'll be covering.

- ~40m for the DB half of the talk
- A short break
- ~40m for the Hosting half of the talk.

</Notes>

---

# Who am I?

<Steps>

- Self Taught Coder
- Senior Software Engineer at Nikola
- Avid Reader and Gamer

</Steps>


<Notes>

2m

</Notes>

---

# What is a database?

<Notes>

2m

- An organized collection of structured information, or data.
- Most common types of databases organize data into tables with
  rows of data, similar to a spreadsheet.
- Improvements over spreadsheets to allow for network access,
  larger volumes of data, and multiple user access scenarios.

</Notes>

---

# Common Types of Databases

### Relational

<Steps>

- MySQL
- Postgres
- MariaDB

</Steps>

### Document Store / NoSQL

<Steps>

- Mongo
- DynamoDB
- CouchDB

</Steps>


<Notes>

5/6m

BE SURE TO COVER THE DIFFERENCES,
YOU REMOVED THE DEDICATED SLIDE FOR THAT.

- Relational - Tables with fixed columns. 
- Document Store - Stores JSON documents, key/value pairs.

Document stores are often easy to get started with, are flexible,
and can be quite fast for queries and filtering.

SQL / Relational DBs shine with well defined data structures,
consistent data, and multi table queries (relationships).

</Notes>

---

# Other Types of Databases

<Steps>

- Time-Series
- Graph
- In Memory
- Financial

</Steps>

<Notes>

2m

Just quickly cover that there are many other types, Time-Series, Financial, Graph, In Memory.

Links for further research in Readme.

</Notes>

---

# SQLite 3 and Replit

[https://bit.ly/35a8MqV](https://replit.com/@retrocede/TUHSD-Hackathon-2022-Intro-to-DB)

<Notes>

20m

For these examples we will be using REPL.it and SQLite.

- Since replit is a tool you already have had some exposure to, and they are a sponsor for the hackathon.
- and b/c SQL/Relational databases are going to be generally the most common type you run into.

</Notes>

---

# Database Q&A

- ~10m for Questions and a quick break.

<Notes>

10m

Short break after this. We need ~30-40m left for Hosting

</Notes>

---

# Intro to Hosting

<Notes>

2m

</Notes>

---

# Types of Hosting

<Steps>

- CDN / Static / JAMSTACK
- PAAS (Heroku, etc)
- Bare Metal VM
- Docker / Kubernetes

</Steps>

<Notes>

5m

Give an overview of the broad types of hosting.

</Notes>

---

# Heroku & Replit

<Notes>

3m

Using Heroku for ease of use.
Using Repl.it as they are a sponsor and a tools some of you have familiarity with.

</Notes>

---

Hosting a flask project on Heroku

<Notes>

~10m to show how you can quickly spin this up.

</Notes>

---

Hosting a flask project on Repl.it

<Notes>

~10m to show how you can quickly spin this up.

</Notes>

---

Learning opportunities:

- Automation
- CI/CD
- Security

<Notes>

can spend up to 5m on these next topics they may want to pursue.

</Notes>

---

# Q&A

<Notes>

up to 10m for Q&A

</Notes>
